In this lecture, we are going to modify the Webpack configuration to help us build custom files.
As we know, these scripts package uses Webpack to bundle our files.
It's capable of searching for files within the source directory to generate files for each block.
However, this feature is limited to blocks.
It does not process files for other pages.
The Webpack configuration from WordPress is completely extendable.
We do not have to stick with the default configuration.
Let's extend Webpack to include custom files.
First, let's create a JavaScript file inside the source directory.
Create a folder called Admin.
Inside this folder, create a file called Index JS.
Inside this file, let's log a message.
JavaScript files for the admin dashboard should be created within this directory.
Now that our files have been created, let's process them with Webpack in the root directory of the
plugin.
Create a file called Webpack config js.
By default, Webpack will run the configuration from WordPress.
If we create a Webpack configuration file, Webpack will prioritize our configuration over WordPress
configuration.
The file name is very important.
If we do not use this file name, our configuration file will be ignored.
Inside this file we are going to import WordPress.
This configuration.
Our goal isn't to completely override the configuration.
We're only interested in adding files to the current bundle.
It's possible to merge WordPress configuration with our configuration.
First, we must import the configuration object at the top of the file.
Import an object called default config from the following path at WordPress slash scripts slash config
slash webpack config dot js.
This path points directly to the configuration file by WordPress.
Import statements will not work.
Technically, this is the JavaScript file.
However, this file is executed by node JS, not the browser.
We need to add support for modules by updating the package file.
At the bottom of the file at a property called type with a value of module.
By adding this property note will allow us to use import statements from our script files.
Let's head back to our configuration file from this file.
Export an empty object.
The object exported by this file will be processed as the configuration for Webpack.
As I mentioned before, we're not interested in completely overriding WordPress.
This configuration, we can merge the configuration from WordPress by spreading the default config object
into our object.
The next step is to start adding our file to the entry point.
The entry point refers to the files that should be processed by Webpack by default.
WordPress has configured Webpack to set the entry point to the files listed in the block JSON file.
We can add custom entry points by adding an object called entry.
Unfortunately, by adding this object, the entry point configured by WordPress will be overridden.
Once again, we can merge WordPress as entry point with our entry point by spreading the default config
entry object into our object.
Next, let's add our admin file inside this object.
The property name must represent the new name of the file.
Set the property name to the following admin slash index.
For organization reasons.
We are going to store the admin files in a separate directory called admin.
The name of the file will be called Index.
We do not need to include the file extension.
Webpack will add the extension for us.
As for the value of this property, we must point web pack to the file in the source directory.
Set the property to the following dot.
Slash CRC.
Slash admin.
In this example, I'm providing the path to the directory, but not the file.
By default, JavaScript will search for a file called index JS within a given directory.
We do not need to append the full path to the file.
After making those changes, we're ready to test our configuration switch over to the command line.
If the start command is running, you may need to restart this command.
After a few moments, Webpack has processed our files just to make sure.
Let's check out the build directory inside this directory.
A new folder should be available called admin.
You can view this file for the bundles.
Webpack has successfully bundled our code.
That's great.
Our code will be optimized for production.
This step is optional, but I always recommend processing your code with Webpack.
In the next lecture, let's begin opening the media library.